Data, users, and tasks (25/25 points)

Nice and detailed user description with clear implications for your dashboard. Very detailed data characterization, well done! The tasks are concrete, differentiated, and clearly motivated by the users’ goals; the structured notation is also easy to follow. The whole section provides a very good start for your tasks and further design considerations.
Task abstraction (7/15 points)

You apply the “what / why / how” framework, which is fine to prepare vis design in general. However, it’s the “why?” question that should be explained with more detailed task descriptions. Try to come up with action-target pairs (you have a good start in there already) but be sure to strip them of domain-specific language. Task abstraction should reformulate tasks at a more abstract level so that they can guide visualization and interaction design independently of the application domain.
Functionality and usability of the dashboards (33/40 points)

Dashboard 1 (17/20): With this layout you might end up with unused white space, be careful when you implement it that you use space efficiently and also make placement self-explanatory for the user. I very much like your line of argumentation, justifying your thought process on choosing specific chart types for particular views. At first it seemed that even for a low-fidelity prototype there is some detail missing, but I now get how the ranking is dependent on the selected line chart. However, this also applies for the map. What does it show and where will you communicate this? Will there be a legend? Is disaster “frequency” at country level biased by country size / population / reporting? What will be shown in the views on the left and right side if nothing is selected? You`ve already started to think about how you can make it obvious to the user how to use the dashboard. For your final design, keep that up and try to guide the user through the process, both avoiding unused space or guidance where user’s have to read much. I like how you made a sensible choice what is feasible to show (e.g. top 5 + selected country). “ In overview mode, it animates or steps through time to illustrate how disaster frequency has evolved.” How? Will there be another way to select a country? Can the user select multiple countries to compare in the line charts (even if limited to e.g. 3–5)? Or is that only achieved by the ranking view? Which year does the ranking then show? Sankey can be harder to read than bars. If your goal is “disaster-type distribution”, a sorted bar chart is often more readable and easier to label.

Dashboard 2 (16/20): A little bit more detail in the dashboard would have been nice, such as which time spans, which units, etc. However, I do like the overall concept and I think it is a good solution with the dropdown for this user group. This can also become cumbersome with many countries, so a dropdown + the option to search might be good here. Overall, whitespace might be a problem here as well, be careful to make the workflow of your dashboard obvious. Why have the country selection at the top right? This view is not clear to me: “Climate-Change Indicators Panel (Paired Line Charts)“; what is happening here?  Be careful with colors, it does make sense to have specific colors for Austria, World, and selected county, but make sure the color scheme beyond that does not complicate it.
Reflection (15/15 points)

Very nice, well done!
Conclusion (4/5 points)

Nice, but you did not mention which dashboard you will implement in A5 and your reasons for that decision.